- [Instructor] Continuous delivery
and continuous deployment are the last pieces
of the end-to-end delivery process.
At a basic level,
these are a set of automated steps
that takes packaged software from an artifact repository,
deploys it for testing,
and then releases it to the environment
where it runs live for end-users
to access.
Continuous deployment pipelines
vary widely across different organizations
and are influenced by many factors.
For example,
how far you decide to take the automation
will determine whether you're practicing continuous delivery
or continuous deployment.
In our process,
initially, we'll manually trigger deployments
to the production environment.
So when I refer to the CD pipeline over
the next few lessons,
just know that I'm talking about continuous delivery.
The technology stack will also heavily influence
the tools and steps within a CD pipeline.
For modern Java applications like ours,
our pipeline will leverage specialized tools
for working with Kubernetes.
That's the platform where we'll run our containers.
Execution of the pipeline is triggered
when a new container image has been built
and published.
In our process,
we'll trigger the pipeline by including some code
in the CI pipeline that is executed
after it publishes a new image.
Once triggered, the CD pipeline
will automatically deploy the container image
into a non-production environment,
which in our case is a Kubernetes cluster.
To automate deployments into both
the non-production and production environments,
we'll be using two tools,
Argo CD and Customize.
Once the container is running
in the non-production environment,
additional tests can be ran against the deployed container.
These tests are typically more expensive
to create and to perform.
That's why we run them later in our delivery process.
This might include tests like manual acceptance testing,
performance testing, or end to end tests.
If everything passes this round of tests,
the pipeline waits for someone
to approve the production deployment.
The approval is usually given by a business
or operations team member
who approves a poll request
or clicks a button that allows
the software to be deployed.
Now, once again,
here, we're talking about continuous delivery.
In continuous deployment,
this would be automatic and we would move right
to the next step.
This step deploys the container image
into the production environment.
For continuous delivery,
it's going to be based upon receiving that manual approval,
but ultimately for both practices,
the deployment will release the changes
for the end users to access.
So that's a high level look at the basic steps
that might be found within a simple CD pipeline.
However, they can get much more complex.
For our purposes,
we'll keep it simple by sticking to a pipeline
that uses Jenkins, Customize,
Argo CD, and a little bit of Bash.